---
layout: post
title:  "4HC3 LEC2"
date:   2020-09-10 00:00:00-0400
categories: 4HC3
---


# SE 4HC3 - Human Computer Interfaces 
**_September 10th 2020_** - Lecture 2

* What is usability? 
    - What does it mean for something to have "good usability"?
        - Command line vs. GUI
- **UI Design Goals**
    - There are many potential goals for UIs, together they make usability
        - i.e. usability "easy to use"
    - We can organize these goals in different taxonomies, i.e. categorizations
    
    - **Learnability**: How easy it is for users to accomplish basic tasks the first time they encounter the design?
    - **Retention**: When users return to the design after a period of no using it, how easy it get back to it?  
        - We call this memorability
    - **Performance**: Once users have learned the design how quickly can they perform the tasks?
    - **Error rates**: How many errors do users make, how severe are these errors and how easily can the recover? 
    - **Subjective satisfaction**: How pleasant is it use the design?
    - **Accessibility**: How accessible is the interface to users with different disabilities? 
    - **Functionality**: What range of operations does the use interface support?
        - Note this is different "than the equality of being suited to serve a purpose well:
        - How much it can do
    - **Trustability** how much do users trust the interface? e.g. to put in their credit card info.
- **Design Goals vs. Reqs**
    - **_Functional Requirements vs. Non-functional Requirements_**
        - What the system allows you to do vs. criteria by which to judge the operation the system (**scalability, testability, maintainability, etc.**)

    - UI Design goals are a subset of Non-functional requirements (aka **quality attributes**)
        - Specific goals we might capture them to tangible requirements
        
-   They broke it down to three main categories:
    - Effectiveness
    - Efficiency
    - Satisfaction

- Safety, Understandability, Responsiveness are some others we may find online to describe some others we have already outlined (can be useful to communicate other use cases)
- **Can interfaces accommodate for every goal?**
    - Tradeoffs
        - Occur when we sacrifice quality in one goal to improve quality for another goal
        - May not be thought consciously and depends on target users 
- **Android vs. IOS**
    - iOS has traded functionality in exchange for improved Performance and usability
- **Trade-off worth it?**
    - Depends on the context of the end-users for the product and what is prioritized for the application
- **Measuring Goals**
    - Why would we do it?
        - To know if we are improving an interface or not
        - Compare interfaces with one another objectively
        - To write requirements that can be verified
    - Not straightforward: 
        - Measuring some of these design goals are hard to measure, like satisfaction, learnability, trustability etc.

    - *Performance*
        - Measure how long it takes for them to perform the task
        - Analyze number of clicks to do a specific tasks
        - How many tasks can they accomplish in a given time period?
    - *Error rates*
        - Errors per task, per given time period
    - *Subjective satisfaction, trustability*
        - Surveys can help make it objective
            - e.g. I liked it "yes or no"
            - e.g. Likert scale
                - Strongly Disagree, Neutral, Agree
                - Can assign a number to each choice and compute average
    - *Learnability and Retention*
        - Perform an experiment
            - Asks uses to try to a specific task and compute the time it took to take it
            - Then we can ask them much later and see if they can still do it
 > **Assignment 1 Due - September 20th 11:59pm**
    >> 3-6 min video critiquing a HCI